Cloud docker 1.0.0 (#6504)
magento/devdocs: src/cloud/docker/docker-extend.md

---
group: cloud-guide
title: Extend the Docker configuration
functional_areas:
  - Cloud
  - Docker
  - Configuration
---

You can use the built-in extension mechanism of Docker to specify [multiple compose files]. The following example replaces the default value of the `ENABLE_SENDMAIL` environment variable.

1. Create a `docker-compose-dev.yml` file inside your project root directory and add the following content:

   ```yaml
   version: '2'
   services:
     deploy:
       environment:
         - ENABLE_SENDMAIL=true
   ```

1. Pass both configuration files while executing your commands. For example:

   ```bash
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml run deploy bash
   ```

## Specify Docker build sources

> To locally test changes to images or make more extensive changes to the containers, you must build them from source.

Reviewer: Leave a line after a heading?

> To locally test changes to images or make more extensive changes to the containers, you must build them from source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test changes to images or make more extensive changes to the containers, you must build them from source.
```

> The following example shows how to build from source by adding `build:context` configuration  to the `docker-compose.override.yml` file. This example defines the build context for the web container. You can use the same technique to build from any of the images in `vendor/magento/magento-cloud-docker` or any other Docker image, including images locally resourced outside the project.

Reviewer: I'm not sure my suggestions helped. What I do think is that this paragraph is missing some articles and the description for using a local image is clunky.

```suggestion
The following example shows how to build from source by adding the `build:context` configuration  to the `docker-compose.override.yml` file. This example defines the build context for the web container. You can use the same technique to build from any of the images in `vendor/magento/magento-cloud-docker` or any other Docker image, including local images resourced outside the project.
```

```yaml
version: '2.1'
services:

>  web:

Reviewer: Check the spacing in this YAML example.

   build:
     context: ./vendor/magento/magento-cloud-docker/images/nginx/1.9/
```

> If you want to update the container configuration and test iteratively, run the following command to refresh the container build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update the container configuration and test iteratively, use the `--force-recreate` option to refresh the container build:
```

  - Cloud
  - Docker
  - Configuration
---

You can use the built-in extension mechanism of Docker to specify [multiple compose files]. The following example replaces the default value of the `ENABLE_SENDMAIL` environment variable.

1. Create a `docker-compose-dev.yml` file inside your project root directory and add the following content:

   ```yaml
   version: '2'
   services:
     deploy:
       environment:
         - ENABLE_SENDMAIL=true
   ```

1. Pass both configuration files while executing your commands. For example:

   ```bash
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml run deploy bash
   ```

## Specify Docker build sources

To test changes to images or make more extensive changes to the containers, you must build them from source. You can do this by
by adding the `build:context` configuration to the `docker-compose.override.yml` file.

The following example defines the build context for the Web container. You can use the same technique to build from any of the images in  the `vendor/magento/magento-cloud-docker` directory or any other Docker image, including local images that are resourced outside the project.

```yaml
version: '2.1'

>    services:

Reviewer: I don't think services should be indented. It is isn't in my YAML file, but do check just in case.
